[MUSIC]
>> Ben Callahan: Let's talk a little
bit about off canvas layouts.
This is fun stuff.
Luke Wroblewski written a pretty good
wrap up of some of the patterns that
are starting to emerge here.
He's done these nice
little diagrams as well.
They kind of illustrate what's happening.
I'm gonna show you three and
you kind of get a picture for
what we're talking about here.
>> Ben Callahan: So
here's an example of one and
I can take my browser down here and
you'll see what happens.
So when I do this,
I'm given menu and extra.
We just talked about this navigation
pattern where the menu lives in
the footer.
Is repositioned up so
that's what he's using here and
then extra slides content
in from off canvas.
So, that's why it's called off canvas.
If you look at sort of
the viewport as the canvas and
you think of your content shifting behind,
pretty simple concept.
One thing that we really start
to see is you'll notice that
there's an animation that's actually
kind of critical for this to work,
because you want your user to understand
that you've actually shifted things.
In addition to that, they're leaving
some content from that mains
column still visible, just kind of
implying that the content didn't leave,
it's still there, and if you want to
get to it you can just click back or
click to close the extra content.
So I like those kinds of cues that they're
giving to the user to really imply what's
actually happening.
One example there, and then here's
a more complex version of the same,
you can see they have these sort of
three different asides in this column.
We take this down and it's a single link
here extra which gives them all the nav
and a tabable container
in the left column.
So you can see we could do a ton of stuff
with these kinds of techniques, right.
I mean this is just
really basic concepting.
Again still sort of implying that
the content hasn't actually left,
it's just off to the side.
And then this is probably the most
beautiful implementation I've seen.
I really think this is
nice because I think.
And I've actually written
about this in an article on
our blog called cross width consistency.
And I think that there's something to it.
I hear a lot of people saying, and we'll
talk a little bit more about this, but
I hear a lot of people saying
the users don't resize their browsers.
But actually we users do resize their
browsers maybe not in the same way that we
developers do but
they view your site on a small device.
They view it more 13% of people
have all three of these categories.
You better bet they're going to
the same websites on those devices.
I may have used Twitter and the web here
I may use it on my desktop or my laptop.
I'm mixed I'm changing my
browser width for those sites.
So we can with a technique like
this we can start to imply and
imply the same layouts even
at smaller resolutions.
So watch what happens as I take this down,
basic three column layout.
And now I've gotten to a point where
the extra is off to the right.
This is the same content that
has always lived on the right
at larger resolutions and
it still lives on the right.
If I continue down again I get
the same kind of thing, left, right.
So all I've really done is adapt my large
resolution layout to work In
the same way at smaller resolutions.
That familiarity is really
kind of key to usability.
So I think this is a really potent,
there's a lot of stuff
that could happen here.
Actually some of this stuff started to
initiate because of what was happening in
native apps.
I think Facebook now is even has something
kind of like this where you kind of on
the the native app itself you touch and
it kind of slides over you still
have that implied content column.
We've actually when we talk about
retrofitting we'll talk a little
bit about some of the other things but
we've actually had found a use case for
this in retrofitting as well
where we're given a very simple.
In fact if we look at the code here.
Now that's not a good way to do it,
let's do it this way.
If you actually look at the markup
of this page, it's very very simple.
Let's do it like this.
Okay so I have a header which
is all the way across the top.
I have a nav item.
>> Ben Callahan: Where did
my nav go there it is.
Nav right, which is on the left.
I have section in the center and
a section on the right.
Okay, that's pretty common for
three column layout,
three grouping elements to let those
three columns live next to each other.
Dead simple, right.
Pretty much every site
that's three columns,
that's not table based layout is
gonna have something like that.
What that means, is that you could
use fairly standard existing markup
to make this kind of layout
work at smaller resolutions.
You could just a little bit of margin is
all really is that's really happening
here, negative margins and some shifting
and add a little JavaScript to that and
you can literally write in a new
navigation menu to navigate those things.
I mean you can really do some amazing
things without having to go in and
creating and you can create
a much better experience for
users than just a shrunk
down version of that site.
So I think there's a lot to be done
here probably a lot more experimentation
that we'll see.
>> Ben Callahan: And
then just a final point here.
>> Ben Callahan: There's there are so
many more solutions out there for
JavaScript for picture for images.
But be careful with any of those that
are JavaScript based because any time
the image element actually lives in the
DOM and your using JavaScript to try and
go back at load time and
adjust that storage attribute.
Those kinds of solutions,
there's tons of them out there.
They're gonna run into a lot of the same
kinds of challenges where browsers
are doing a lot more to try and speed
up the process of the apparent loading
of a page or doing things like speculative
parsing where they're looking ahead in
the DOM and making firing off additional
requests even before they get there.
So, even if you've got a blocking script,
you better bet that that
browser is making requests for
images that exist further down in the DOM.
So there's all kinds of race
conditions that happen.
You may end up actually
doing more damage than good.
But that shouldn't keep you from
experiment with these things, okay?
Performance is important.
Access is more important, okay?
This is my belief.
Christopher says it great mobile
later is better than mobile never.
If you don't do anything to your site,
your users are still gonna
download those big images, right.
[LAUGH] I mean,
they're still gonna go to your site
whether you've made it responsive or not.
And they're gonna still make all
those requests for those big images.
So even if all you're doing is
scaling them in the browser,
you're still giving them at
a more appropriate resolution.
You still can make your text more readable
you still can make your navigation more
usable.
But there are some that
are evolving that are much more
sort of emerging patterns
that are much more usable.
So Christopher great book out by the way
called Mobilizing Websites check that out
if you're in a scenario we've got to
work with a lot of legacy sites, okay.
That's what I've got for us to sort
of finish up the morning with here.
And I think it's about time for
a break for lunch.
And then we'll come back in,
and jump into some more code.